TRAIL BLAZERS OUTLAST HAWKS IN OVERTIME 124-113
Monday, November 11th, 2019 12:59 AM
By ANNE M. PETERSON - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) Damian Lillard huddled with the Trail Blazers after regulation against Atlanta, searching for overtime motivation after a four-game losing streak.
''I just turned to the group and I told them that, sometimes when you're struggling and having a hard time like we have, you get put in these types of situations, where you've got to see how bad you want it,'' Lillard said. ''You've got to dig out and do it as a group.''
The Blazers proved they indeed wanted it in the end, snapping the losing streak with a 124-113 overtime victory over the Hawks on Sunday night. Lillard finished with 30 points.
Kent Bazemore made back-to-back 3-pointers to open the extra period, sending the Blazers to their first win at home this season.
Trae Young had 35 points and 10 assists for Atlanta, which has lost three straight games and six of its last seven.
It was a tight game throughout, but especially heated in the final moments of regulation as both teams wrestled for the win.
With a 103-102 edge, Blazers coach Terry Stotts challenged a foul call on Hassan Whiteside with 1:09 left. It was successful and CJ McCollum's jumper extended the lead to 105-102 with 52.5 seconds left.
Kevin Huerter's 3-pointer for Atlanta tied it at 105 with 27.9 seconds to go. Lillard answered with a layup that gave Portland back the lead but Huerter's layup tied it up again with 0.7 seconds on the clock, sending the game to overtime.
After Bazemore's 3-pointers against his former team, McCollum's 3 extended the lead to 118-111 to all but seal it. McCollum finished with 23 points and Whiteside added 21 points and 11 rebounds.
''They started out every quarter on a run and the same thing happened at the end. They started out on a run and it was too late then to catch back up,'' Young said.
The Blazers were coming off a 119-115 loss to the Nets on Friday night, which marred Lillard's big night with a personal best and franchise record 60 points.
Portland has been beset by injuries. Forward Zach Collins appeared in three games this season before surgery on his shoulder that will sideline him at least four months. Forward Rodney Hood left Friday's game with back spasms and was unavailable against the Hawks.
But the Blazers saw the return of Skal Labissiere, who sprained his ankle in the fourth quarter against the Nets. And Whiteside, who was day-to-day with a right foot sprain, started.
''We needed it,'' Stotts said about the victory. ''No matter how we got it, we got it.''
The Hawks were coming off to a 121-109 loss at home to Sacramento Kings 121-109 on Friday night. Atlanta is also dealing with injuries: Evan Turner, a former Blazer, missed his sixth game with an Achilles issue while Allen Crabbe remained out after knee surgery last April. Crabbe, upgraded to questionable before the game, was dressed but did not play.
Lloyd Pierce started Huerter instead of Cam Reddish, who had started the Hawks' previous eight games.
''The home team came up big in the fourth quarter so credit to them but I thought our guys played their tails off tonight,'' Pierce said.
Whiteside's dunk put the Blazers up 18-10 early but by the end of the first period the Hawks closed the gap and went up 21-20 after Young's basket.
Portland reclaimed the lead, going up 40-33 on Gary Trent Jr.'s jumper. Atlanta closed to within 46-44 at the half.
Anthony Tolliver's layup for Portland tied the game at 73 late in the third period. Anfernee Simons, who had 12 points in the third quarter alone, pulled Portland in front 78-75 with a driving layup and free throw in the fourth.
Lillard's step-back 3-pointer and layup gave Portland an 85-82 advantage, but Parker's jumper narrowed the gap for the Hawks. Parker finished with 27 points and 11 rebounds for Atlanta.
TIP INS:
Hawks: The game was the first of a five-game trip. ... Vince Carter was not with the team because of personal reasons. ... John Collins, who averaged 19.5 points per game for the Hawks, missed his fourth game of a 25-game suspension for violating the NBA's drug policy. ... Chandler Parsons was also ruled out of the game.
Trail Blazers: In addition to Hood and Collins, the Blazers continue to play without center Pau Gasol, who is still rehabbing from foot surgery, and fellow big man Jusuf Nurkic, who won't be back until after the first of the year. ... Lillard broke the franchise record for points scored through the first 10 games of the season. ... It was Portland's fourth straight victory over the Hawks.
UP NEXT:
The Hawks play Tuesday at Denver.
The Blazers play Tuesday at Sacramento, then return home for a game the next night against Toronto.
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports