BIG RUN IN 4TH QUARTER LIFTS WARRIORS OVER PISTONS 116-106
Tuesday, December 29th, 2020 11:58 PM
By NOAH TRISTER - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
DETROIT (AP) Stephen Curry scored 31 points and Andrew Wiggins added 27 to lift the Golden State Warriors to a 116-106 victory over the winless Detroit Pistons on Tuesday night.
The injury-plagued Warriors have won two in a row after dropping their first two games by a combined 65 points. The decisive stretch Tuesday came with Curry on the bench. Rookie big man James Wiseman had a dunk and Wiggins followed with a 3-pointer to cap a 12-0 run that put Golden State up 98-89 in the fourth quarter.
''Just a great feeling to turn what was a mess of a road trip into a really good one,'' Warriors coach Steve Kerr said.
Jerami Grant led the Pistons with 27 points.
The Warriors are without stars Klay Thompson (right Achilles tendon) and Draymond Green (right foot), but now Detroit has injury problems of its own. Blake Griffin ended up in the concussion protocol and did not play in the second half, and rookie guard Killian Hayes left with a sprained right ankle.
The Pistons led 89-86 in the fourth before a 3-pointer by Wiggins tied it. Wiseman's dunk came after the 7-footer blocked a shot at the other end and dribbled most of the length of the court. That put the Warriors up by six and sent several Golden State players spilling from the bench area in excitement. Curry tossed a towel in the air after Wiggins' 3 moments later.
The Pistons, who led by as many as 12 points in the first half, were up 51-48 after two quarters. Golden State went on a 17-3 run early in the third, but Detroit stayed close well into the fourth.
Wiggins scored 17 points in the final quarter, and three of his five 3-pointers came in the fourth.
''He was phenomenal,'' Kerr said. ''He just took over the game, knocking down 3s, getting to the rim, getting to the foul line. Andrew was fantastic, just that whole fourth quarter.''
Wiggins has shot better the past two games after going 10 of 34 from the field to open the season against Brooklyn and Milwaukee.
''Just keep shooting, it's going to fall,'' he said. ''You've just got to believe in yourself.''
TIP-INS
Warriors: Announced after the game they exercised the third-year contract option for next season on G Jordan Poole. ... Golden State improved to 9-22 in regular-season games without both Green and Thompson in the lineup since 2012-13.
Pistons: Griffin did not play in Monday night's loss at Atlanta because of left knee issues. He finished with eight points Tuesday. Derrick Rose, who did not play either on Monday, had 15 points against the Warriors.
TOUGH START
The Pistons have lost all four of their games, although none by more than 10 points.
''We're playing excellent basketball through stretches, but now that next step is to continue to close the deal,'' coach Dwane Casey said. ''Some good things, but again, close only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades.''
UP NEXT
Warriors: Friday night they host Portland. That will be Golden State's home opener after the Warriors opened with four games on the road.
Pistons: Friday night they host Boston. Detroit went 1-1 against the Celtics last season. Both games were on the road.
---
Follow Noah Trister at https://twitter.com/noahtrister
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball