SHORT-HANDED WARRIORS STUN SPURS 124-120 TO EXTEND STREAK
Wednesday, February 2nd, 2022 1:23 AM
By RAUL DOMINGUEZ - Associated Press
Game Recap
SAN ANTONIO (AP) Jordan Poole had 31 points, including a go-ahead 3-pointer with 17.9 seconds remaining, and the short-handed Golden State Warriors beat the San Antonio Spurs 124-120 on Tuesday night for their seventh straight victory.
''I knew he was going to make it,'' Warriors rookie Jonathan Kuminga said. ''He missed the first one. Great players don't miss the second one.''
Golden State rallied from a 17-point deficit despite being without Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson, Draymond Green and Andrew Wiggins on the second night of a back-to-back.
''Our vets who didn't play are so excited in there,'' Warriors coach Steve Kerr said, adding it was ''a fantastic win for us.''
Damion Lee had 21 points for the Warriors and Moses Moody added 20.
Dejounte Murray led San Antonio with 27 points, nine rebounds and nine assists. Murray had a pair of baskets in the final minute, including a 15-footer that gave the Spurs a 120-119 lead with 40 seconds remaining.
Poole put Golden State back ahead from the left corner after several players dove on the floor for a loose ball in a wild scramble following a previous 3-point miss by Poole. Moody collected the loose ball and fired a pass to Poole, who was wide open.
''That was the play that won the game,'' Poole said. ''That was the one that did it. That hustle play, that effort play, especially in such a crucial time.''
San Antonio led by as many as 17 points in the second half, but Golden State's depleted roster fought back. Lee's 3-pointer with 2 minutes to go gave the Warriors a 117-1114 lead, their first since the game's opening minute. Lee's previous 3-pointer cut the Spurs' lead to 114-112.
Kuminga had a 3-pointer and a breakaway windmill dunk in a 26-10 run to take the lead. Kuminga finished with 19 points.
Golden State was 20 for 46 on 3-pointers and took advantage of 14 turnovers by San Antonio.
''Rebounding has been our problem all year,'' Spurs guard Derrick White said. ''And the turnovers, I probably started it off with two turnovers in the fourth.''
Golden State was also without Andre Iguodala, Otto Porter Jr. and Nemanja Bjelica.
The Warriors lost Gary Payton to a leg injury in the fourth quarter and the Spurs lost centers Jakob Poeltl and Jock Landale after both were hit in the head in the first half.
TIP-INS
Warriors: Kerr said Curry injured his left toe in the third quarter of Monday's game in Houston. Curry still scored 21 of his 40 points in the fourth quarter of the Warriors' 122-108 victory. . Kerr was asked if it was an easy decision to rest his players against the Spurs. ''It was an easy choice because they are genuinely nursing injuries,'' Kerr said. . Payton exited with 6:23 remaining in the game after hitting his left shin against a chair Payton was helped up but walked off on his own while limping slightly. . Thompson missed the game as injury management in his return from right Achilles' tendon surgery. Wiggins sat due to a sore left knee. Green and Bjelica were both out due to back injuries. Iguodala had a hip injury and Porter was out for injury management on his left foot. . The Warriors are 22-8 against Western Conference teams.
Spurs: Poeltl exited the game with 7:20 remaining in the second quarter after being hit in the face on a foul by Kuminga. Poeltl had his hands on his knees for a minute before checking if his nose was bleeding and if his front tooth was loose. Poeltl let out some frustration on the ensuing play with a huge dunk but left the game two minutes later. . Murray had 321 points, 121 rebounds and 139 assists in January, becoming the first player in franchise history to reach those statistical numbers in any calendar month. He also set a franchise record with four triple-doubles in a month. . Keita Bates-Diop returned after sitting out while in the league's health and safety protocols. . The Spurs are 10-16 at home.
UP NEXT
Warriors: Host Sacramento on Thursday.
Spurs: Host Houston on Thursday.