CURRY AND HIS SUPPORTING CAST RALLY WARRIORS PAST HEAT IN OT
Thursday, February 18th, 2021 2:13 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Stephen Curry's supporting cast knew he would finally break out - and he had no doubt either.
''Utmost confidence it will fall eventually,'' Curry said. ''I just was missing, so not losing confidence is huge.''
Curry hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 1:15 left in overtime, passed to Andrew Wiggins for another the next time down before delivering a final dagger from deep, rallying the Golden State Warriors to a 120-112 win over the Miami Heat on Wednesday night.
''Everything was in rhythm for Steph. Percentages always catch up for him,'' Kent Bazemore said. ''We just stayed with it, which is good on him, just staying with it and keep letting it fly. He was huge for us late there.''
Bazemore tipped in Wiggins' miss with 1:32 left for one of his two big baskets in OT and finished with a season-high 26 points - his second 20-point performance this season.
Curry scored 25 points playing a season-high 42 minutes and overcame an off shooting night by finding his stroke when it mattered most. He added 11 assists and seven rebounds.
''It's just a testament to who he is,'' Bazemore said. ''When you've got a guy like that who believes in you and instills that confidence in you, you feel like you can do anything.''
Jimmy Butler had his second straight triple-double with 13 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists for the Heat, who never trailed in regulation.
Curry's 3 with 2:26 left in regulation cut it to 103-101 and he stole the ball from Butler on the other end moments later. Bazemore made consecutive hoops to tie it with 52 seconds remaining. Kelly Oubre Jr. missed a 3 for the win.
''The last few minutes of the fourth we were just scrambling out there and I thought Baze kind of led the charge. He really made some huge plays for us and kept us in it,'' coach Steve Kerr said. ''Then of course Steph, this is so typical of Steph, he's just the kind of player and the kind of person who can be in the midst of one of his worst shooting nights of the year and still hit three enormous shots to help us win the game.''
Kendrick Nunn scored 19 points for Miami, coming off a 125-118 loss at the Clippers on Monday night.
Golden State started with a 13-3 burst out of halftime to make it a game again after falling behind 61-46 at the break.
Wiggins wound up with 23 points as Curry mostly struggled.
Curry was 3 for 11 in the first half, missing eight of his nine 3-point tries. He finished 5 of 20 from long range as Golden State went 18 for 52 and got outrebounded 50-45.
''Once it got close and it became a possession game. That's when Curry came alive,'' Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said.
Draymond Green was a late scratch by the Warriors because of right ankle soreness they didn't know about until just before tipoff given the team didn't hold a morning shootaround. Mychal Mulder made his fourth career start in Green's place and first of the season.
IGGY'S BACK
Andre Iguodala received a nice welcome back when he checked into the game for the first time in the final two minutes of the opening quarter. He then scored 10 points against his old team.
The 2015 NBA Finals MVP did a little bit of everything in six seasons for the Warriors from 2013-19.
''That's why Andre will always be one of my favorites just his selflessness and willingness to do whatever it takes to win a game,'' Kerr said.
TIP-INS
Heat: Butler has grabbed eight or more rebounds in nine straight games. ... The Heat dropped to 4-10 on the road with their third straight loss away from home. ... The Heat swept last season's series with the Warriors and had their three-game winning streak in the series snapped.
Warriors: C Kevon Looney was re-evaluated before missing his eighth straight game with a sprained left ankle. He has resumed some portions of practice and Kerr hopes he will be back on the floor in the latter part of an upcoming four-game road trip. ... Rookie James Wiseman is scheduled to have his sprained left wrist examined again Thursday and if all is well could return as soon as Friday vs. the Magic. ''I can't wait to get on the floor, which should be pretty soon,'' Wiseman said.
UP NEXT
Heat: At Sacramento on Thursday night to complete a back-to-back. Miami lost 105-104 at home to the Kings on Jan. 30.
Warriors: At Orlando on Friday night with a chance at their first three-game winning streak of the season before a scheduled game in Curry's hometown of Charlotte on Saturday.
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports