CURRY, THOMPSON SHOOT WARRIORS PAST WOLVES, 124-115
Friday, January 28th, 2022 1:57 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Stephen Curry found his sweet shooting stroke again after a rough stretch and Klay Thompson kept the pressure on from the perimeter and with drives through the paint, healthy again at last.
First-time All-Star Andrew Wiggins complemented them both.
Curry scored 29 points, Thompson added 23 points and the Golden State Warriors beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 124-115 on Thursday night.
''With Klay, it's easy to play with him because he's obviously an amazing scorer, amazing shooter, commands a lot of attention out there,'' Curry said. ''The hardest part is just trying to keep things simple because you can always try to do something special on every possession and there's where you get in trouble and we have a tendency to do that from time to time.''
Wiggins added 19 points, five rebounds, four assists and a pair of blocked shots facing his former team again in Golden State's 11th straight home win against the Wolves - still relishing in his All-Star nod from earlier in the day.
Wiggins loves being part of it all.
''It's special. The NBA's never seen shooters like them,'' Wiggins said of the Splash Brothers. ''Playing alongside of them, it's fun. You never know what's going to happen, you don't know what crazy shots they're going to make. We know the energy they bring to the team and the energy they bring to the building, the arena, everyone just feeds off them and from there we get going.''
Karl-Anthony Towns had 31 points and 12 rebounds for Minnesota, which trailed 97-81 going into the fourth before beginning the final period on a 10-0 run to get back in it. Anthony Edwards added 27 points, six rebounds and six assists.
It was only a matter of time for Curry to get hot again, as he was motivated by his recent slump: 37 for 127 from deep this month before Thursday.
Curry shot 6 for 10 from long range - 10 of 20 overall - after going 3 for 23 on 3s his previous two games. He also contributed eight rebounds and six assists. The reigning scoring champion and career 3-point leader sat out a 119-99 loss at Minnesota on Jan. 16.
Wiggins knocked down a key 3 with 5:56 remaining. He dominated the last time the Wolves visited Chase Center, scoring 35 points on 14-of-19 shooting in a 123-110 win on Nov. 10.
''Klay, he was great against Dallas the other night and tonight he was even better, so he's adapting quickly and I loved his drive and kicks, he made some excellent passes,'' Warriors coach Steve Kerr said. ''It's fun to see Klay and Steph back together and it's really fun to see Wiggs with them, I think he complements them really well.''
The Warriors began the game with consecutive turnovers and fell behind 8-0 in a hurry before Otto Porter Jr.'s 3-pointer at the 10:10 mark.
D'Angelo Russell sustained a bruised left shin in the third quarter and didn't return for Minnesota, which had won two in a row and four of five.
ALL-STAR WIGGINS
Wiggins beamed before the game, pondering how he will be an All-Star starter in his first career appearance at last.
''It means the world. It's always been a goal of mine, I've worked hard and I'm in a situation where I was given an opportunity to be an All-Star, and I'll never take that for granted,'' he said. ''It's a big thing for me and my family, where I'm from, so hopefully I can build on it.''
Curry joked the group text chat had more congrats for Wiggins, who Thompson insists will be an All-Star many more times.
Kerr is one proud coach.
''One of the proudest moments just to see what Wiggs has done since he got here a couple of years go,'' Kerr said. ''The journey he has traveled has been rocky at times, and to see how hard he's worked and to see all the work rewarded, just could not be happier for him.''
GREEN'S NEW GIG
Draymond Green is going into TV.
He has received an exclusive multiyear agreement to join Turner Sports as an active player, set to make appearances with the network's Inside the NBA program among other content opportunities with Turner Sports and Bleacher Report.
''Only words of wisdom is when he's analyzing the Warriors, not to bash his coach,'' Kerr said. ''He can only wear one hat when he talks about the Warriors, he can't wear two. It's a great opportunity for him. I worked at Turner for eight years. Wonderful people there, great company and vibe. Draymond has already proven how good he can be on TV and this will help him lay the foundation for his post-basketball playing career. I'm very confident that he'll be able to divide up his duties up well and not losing anything on the court.''
TIP-INS
Timberwolves: G Patrick Beverley sat out a third straight game with a sprained right ankle. ... The Wolves shot 4 for 21 from 3-point range in the first half and 10 of 44 overall -- Malik Beasley 0 for 8 and Edwards 2 of 11. ... Minnesota hasn't won on the Warriors home floor since a 124-117 victory on April 5, 2016.
Warriors: Andre Iguodala missed his third straight game managing a left hip injury and also will be sidelined Saturday vs. the Nets, with Kerr hoping for his return during the upcoming road trip. ... Kevon Looney picked up his fourth foul 1:51 before halftime and eventually fouled out in 24 minutes.
UP NEXT
Timberwolves: At Phoenix on Friday night to complete a back-to-back.
Warriors: Host the Nets on Saturday night to conclude their seven-game homestand.
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports