EDWARDS SCORES 33, TIMBERWOLVES BEAT SPURS 151-131
Saturday, April 8th, 2023 7:27 PM
By RAUL DOMINGUEZ - Associated Press
Game Recap
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) Anthony Edwards had 33 points in 25 minutes and the Minnesota Timberwolves routed San Antonio 151-131, the most points allowed in regulation under Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, on Saturday at the Moody Center.
Minnesota shot 56% on 3-pointers while making a season-high 24 3s.
“From the beginning of the game I feel like everybody was hitting and it just carried over,” Edwards said.
Karl-Anthony Towns added 22 points, Mike Conley had 20 points and Rudy Gobert had 10 points and 13 rebounds for Minnesota.
The Timberwolves won for the sixth time in nine games. Minnesota will finish no lower than ninth in the Western Conference but still have a chance of finishing eighth ahead of New Orleans, who they host Sunday.
Julian Champagnie had 24 points to lead San Antonio, which will finish with one of the league’s three worst records. Keita Bates-Diop added 22 points and Tre Jones had 21 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds.
The Spurs’ final home game of the season was played in Austin. The Spurs played their final two games at the Moody Center on the campus of the University of Texas as part of the Spurs’ regional outreach initiative.
San Antonio struggled offensively with its entire starting lineup out with injury except for Jones.
“Minnesota was really hot from 3,” Popovich said. “They must have had close to 25 3s. I mean, big, but guys did well. They had 21 assists in the first half. Played physically, lot of guys got minutes that normally don’t get those minutes. Great learning situation for everybody.”
Minnesota led by as many as 33 points in the second half after being tied at 35 in the first quarter.
“Come out and be aggressive (in the second half)," Edwards said. "Do what we normally do, blow stuff up. In the first half we were just kind of letting them get into their action. Came out and blew stuff up and that pretty much changed the intensity of the game.”
TIP-INS
Timberwolves: Minnesota co-owner Alex Rodriguez was sitting courtside near former San Antonio star Tony Parker. Popovich greeted Rodriguez prior to tip-off. … The Timberwolves split their four-game series with the Spurs this season. The average margin of victory in each game was 12.5 points.
Spurs: Washington scored the most points against San Antonio under Popovich, defeating the Spurs 157-153 in double overtime on Feb. 25, 2022. … Popovich said the team sent C Zach Collins home after the finger he recently received stitches on began swelling. “Looks like some sort of infection,” Popovich said. Collins will not play in the Spurs’ finale Sunday in Dallas. … Starters Keldon Johnson (sprained right foot), Jeremy Sochan (sore right knee) and Devin Vassell (injury management for left knee) all sat out with injuries. Also missing were reserve wings Doug McDermott (sprained right ankle) and Devonte’ Graham (left adductor strain). … San Antonio honored former All-Star LaMarcus Aldridge following the first quarter. Aldridge recently announced his retirement after playing 16 seasons in the league, including 5 1/2 with the Spurs. Aldridge starred at Texas before being drafted by the Portland Trailblazers in 2006. … San Antonio finished 14-27 at home this season. The Spurs were 16-25 at home last season.
WE’LL BE BACK
Popovich said the Spurs are eager to return to Austin after selling out both games at the Moody Center.
The Spurs had 16,023 attend Thursday’s game and attracted 16,148 Saturday after allotting more standing-room only tickets.
“Obviously, people enjoy it,” Popovich said of a return. “It’s great to see the place packed like that. It’s a great town, so hopefully we will be doing it more.”
UP NEXT
Timberwolves: Host New Orleans on Sunday.
Spurs: At Dallas on Sunday.
---
AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports