WIGGINS DOMINATES FORMER WOLVES MATES WITH SEASON-BEST 35
Thursday, November 11th, 2021 10:30 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Andrew Wiggins drove the baseline for an emphatic one-handed slam right over old teammate Karl-Anthony Towns, and it sure felt sweet.
''That's my guy,'' Wiggins said, noting it was better coming against Towns. ''Oh, for sure. He got me last year, so I got him back.''
Wiggins had two dunks over Towns and dominated his former Timberwolves with a season-high 35 points, leading the Golden State Warriors to a 123-110 victory over Minnesota on Wednesday night.
''No, not a revenge game, a well-played game against a former team,'' Wiggins said. ''A fun game. The game of basketball's fun. ... Facing your former team is always one you wake up excited for.''
Anthony Edwards scored a career-high 48 points for Minnesota, hitting seven 3-pointers in the Timberwolves' sixth straight loss.
Wiggins, traded by Minnesota to Golden State in February 2020, made his initial 10 shots, scored 22 of his points on 9-for-9 shooting in the first half.
''Andrew was just fantastic, the aggression from the beginning of the game, loved his energy,'' coach Steve Kerr said. ''Obviously he was pretty excited to play against his old team. We needed everything he brought us tonight.''
Stephen Curry scored 25 points to go with six assists coming off a 50-point masterpiece Monday night against Atlanta. Jordan Poole had 14 points and five rebounds to help Golden State push its NBA-leading record to 10-1.
Kevon Looney added season-bests of 11 points and 17 rebounds, delivering on both ends on a night Draymond Green exited with a bruised right thigh. Green is listed as questionable for Friday's game with the Bulls.
''I thought Kevon Looney was just amazing. That's one of the toughest matchups in the league in Towns,'' Kerr said.
Edwards' 3-pointer with 5:59 left pulled the Timberwolves to 105-98, and longtime Warriors nemesis Patrick Beverley made it 105-100 before Looney's dunk with 4:04 remaining.
Minnesota's D'Angelo Russell had 18 points and seven assists against his former team.
CONSISTENT WIGGINS
Wiggins shot 14 for 19, and he is the first Warriors player to go at least 9 for 9 in a half since Monta Ellis made all 10 of his shots in the first half against Memphis on Jan. 11, 2008, according to Elias.
''I'm going to keep it rolling,'' Wiggins said, ''I'm going to stay aggressive.''
HOOPS FOR TROOPS
As part of Warriors Hoops for Troops Week, U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officers Camechie Baker and Syreeta Bromfield had courtside seats and even received a quick visit and hello from Draymond Green before his warmups.
''It's a life dream right now,'' Baker said.
More than seats were donated by season ticket-holders to be used by military members.
Bromfield played basketball at Green's alma mater Michigan State, so that made it extra special.
''Its more than a treat,'' Bromfield said. ''Just to be partnering with the Warriors and for the donors to give up their seats for us to be a part of this NBA Hoops for Troops, it's amazing. When would we ever get this opportunity to sit courtside and see a game?''
TIP-INS
Timberwolves: The Timberwolves shot 17 for 44 from deep and gave up 13 steals to Golden State.
Warriors: Damion Lee sat out with soreness in his left hip. ... Golden State had its streak of five straight games with 30 or more assists snapped. ... Warriors assistant Mike Brown returned to the bench after he was ill and missed Monday's game. ... Golden State is 10-1 for the first time since starting 10-1 in 2018-19. ... F Otto Porter Jr. returned after getting Monday night to rest and protect a left foot injury.
UP NEXT
Timberwolves: Visit Lakers on Friday, then face the Clippers the following day to conclude a three-game California swing.
Warriors: Host the Bulls on Friday night to wrap up an eight-game homestand that matches a franchise record.
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports