PELICANS FINISH PERFECT ROAD TRIP AS TREY MURPHY III AND ZION WILLIAMSON LEAD 116-103 WIN OVER HAWKS
Sunday, March 10th, 2024 9:16 PM
By BILL TROCCHI - Associated Press
Game Recap
ATLANTA (AP) Trey Murphy III had 28 points off the bench to help the New Orleans Pelicans complete a perfect three-game road trip with a 116-103 win over the Atlanta Hawks on Sunday night.
Zion Williamson had 27 points, six rebounds and seven assists for the Pelicans, who have won four straight overall and snapped the Hawks' three-game winning streak.
Murphy was 6 for 13 from 3-point range and also had seven rebounds. Brandon Ingram had 10 assists and seven points, and CJ McCollum finished with 20 points for the Pelicans, who shot 52% from 3-point range and 57% from the floor.
“When he keeps it simple, like he’s been doing, the simple can be spectacular,” Pelicans coach Willie Green said of Murphy. “Trey’s shooting has been off the charts the last five to seven games.”
Bogdan Bogdanovic led the Hawks with 25 points. Dejounte Murray finished with 23 points and 11 assists one game after tying a career high with 41 points.
The Hawks, already down two starters in Trae Young and Jalen Johnson, lost Saddiq Bey to a left knee injury with 10:41 remaining.
Bey slid in pain on the floor after stopping short and getting fouled. Bey stayed in and made one of two free throws, then was removed and went to the locker room with a slight limp. He beat the third quarter buzzer with a 3-pointer and finished with 14 points and five rebounds.
The Hawks had no immediate update on his condition after the game.
The Pelicans had at least a 20-point lead at halftime in each of their last three games, and held an 11-point advantage Sunday after holding the Hawks to 32% shooting. Murray missed his first eight shots after being hounded primarily by Herb Jones, who blocked two shots by Murray in the first quarter.
“Herb Jones is incredible,” Green said. “Dejounte Murray is a heck of a player, All-Star caliber player. He’s doing a little bit of everything for this squad right now. Herb made it extremely difficult for him all game. Incredible defense.”
Murray also recognized the effort Jones put worth to shut down the Hawks' primary play-maker with Young out.
“Herb Jones is a first-team All-Defensive guy,” Murray said. “I love the way that he competes.”
The Pelicans led by at least 10 the entire fourth quarter.
Williamson had an eventful first half, with a flying blocked shot off a layup attempt by Vit Krejci, a fast break alley-oop dunk from Naji Marshall and an alley-oop assist to Murphy.
“(Williamson is) rebounding, he’s taking off in transition, he's scoring in a number of ways,” Green said. “And then he’s handling the ball and making plays for his teammates. When he’s playing dominant like he is, we’re tough to stop.”
The Hawks, who remain in 10th place and in the final play-in tournament spot in the Eastern Conference, fell to 6-3 since they lost Young to a wrist injury.
UP NEXT
Pelicans: Host the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday to start a three-game homestand.
Hawks: Start a four-game road trip against the Portland Trail Blazers on Wednesday.
---
AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA