CURRY, WIGGINS HELP WARRIORS BEAT KNICKS 111-101
Saturday, November 19th, 2022 1:34 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Steve Kerr wanted Klay Thompson to relax a little, let the game come to him.
And Thompson is certainly showing signs of finding his shooting groove again.
''I thought a lot about that,'' Thompson said about being patient.
He scored 20 points with four 3-pointers, Stephen Curry added 24 points, 10 assists and six rebounds, and the Golden State Warriors beat the New York Knicks 111-101 on Friday night.
Andrew Wiggins added 20 points with seven rebound and Draymond Green contributed 10 points, nine rebounds and seven assists with two blocked shots.
Thompson hit 4 of his first 6 shots with three 3s for 11 early points.
''It seemed like every time Klay just made an extra pass, the ball started to move and then we got a wide open shot,'' Kerr said. ''We ended up with 32 assists. It started with early on Klay taking a more patient approach. And then the game rewarded him.''
Jordan Poole scored 13 points off the bench and JaMychal Green 12. He credited a team meeting earlier Friday as the Warriors had a tough conversation about their struggles and ''addressed the elephants in the room.''
Thompson called it ''a very constructive meeting ... an incredible time of growth.''
''I feel like tonight was the best game we've put together on the defensive end,'' he said.
Julius Randle had 20 points and seven rebounds and RJ Barrett scored 18 for the cold-shooting Knicks, who began 5 of 22, shot 34.5% and tried to play catch up all night.
Jalen Brunson struggled on his shot to go 2 for 13 - 1 for 5 from long range - and finish with 13 points for New York coming off a 106-103 win at Denver on Wednesday night. The Knicks had won two straight and three of four but missed matching their longest winning streak so far.
HOME AND ROAD
The Warriors are 7-1 at home and 0-8 on the road.
''I'm actually much more interested in why we're not playing well on the road than why were are playing well at home,'' Kerr said. ''I expect to play well at home. We've got a good record here over the years and good players, great fans. No reason we shouldn't control our home court. But we got to start putting it together on the road, too.''
Golden State snapped a three-game home skid to the Knicks and has won its last eight in New York.
''To me, the road record is directly connected to the defense,'' Kerr said.
TIP-INS
Knicks: C Mitchell Robinson sat out with a sprained right knee. ... New York lost on the Warriors' home floor for the first time in four games since a 122-95 defeat on Jan. 8, 2019. ... The Knicks missed their initial 10 3-pointers before RJ Barrett connected at the 9:15 mark of the second quarter. Derrick Rose, Jalen Brunson and Immanuel Quickley began a combined 0 for 9 from deep.
Warriors: The Warriors shot just 11 of 20 at the free throw line, Curry missing two and Wiggins three. ''It happens, just one random game,'' Kerr said. ... Thompson passed J.J. Redick (1,950) - in the house working the broadcast - for 16th place on the 3-pointers list. ... C Kevon Looney has played in 127 consecutive regular-season games, the third-longest active streak. ... Golden State built an 18-point lead in the first quarter and kept pushing.
UP NEXT
Knicks: At Phoenix on Sunday in the fourth contest in a five-game, seven-day trip. The Knicks will play at Oklahoma City on Monday night to complete the back-to-back and finish the swing out West.
Warriors: At Houston on Sunday for the first in a road back-to-back that finishes at New Orleans on Monday night.
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports