CURRY, POOLE COMBINE FOR 64 AS WARRIORS BEAT THUNDER 136-125
Wednesday, April 5th, 2023 1:31 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) These second-half comebacks are becoming a thing for the Golden State Warriors, much like those old third-quarter surges that used to define this bunch.
Stephen Curry scored 34 points, Jordan Poole dazzled down the stretch to score 30 and the Warriors didn't lead until the 8:29 mark of the fourth quarter on the way to beating the Oklahoma City Thunder 136-125 on Tuesday night.
In their final regular-season home game, the Warriors moved into fifth place in the Western Conference standings.
For a day, that is. The winner of the Clippers-Lakers game Wednesday jumps to fifth and will drop Golden State to sixth. The Warriors will be watching closely, and can win their final two games on the road and secure their spot.
“It’s fun, this is all what it’s about. We love the competition and even though we’d prefer to be home free in the playoffs right now, this is where we are," coach Steve Kerr said. "Really proud of the guys what they've done here in recent weeks to put ourselves in this position but now we've got to go finish the deal and get into the top six."
On a night Klay Thompson was a late scratch with low back tightness - “totally unexpected,” according to Kerr - Poole and his backcourt mates came through. Poole raised his hands to make a 3 sign while celebrating his big make from deep with 3:17 to play that put the Warriors up 131-120. He added a 360-degree layup the next time down off Draymond Green's steal.
Poole is happy he's playing some of his best basketball during a crucial stretch.
“They all matter. You try to lock in as much as possible and put us in a really good position to be successful,” Poole said.
Green contributed 17 points, 10 rebounds and five assists with a pair of blocked shots and steals.
Shai Gilgeous-Alexander scored 32 points, 21 in the first half, for the Thunder. Jalen Williams added 19 points but the Thunder lost their third in a row and fourth of five.
Moses Moody's dunk with 4:57 left in the third pulled the Warriors within 92-91 after they trailed by 10 at halftime. He finished with 13 points and five rebounds in his first game scoring in double figures since Jan. 13.
“It definitely had that playoff feel to it being out here in these games, how much each game matters, how much each possession matters,” Moody said.
Donte DiVincenzo added 16 points and Kevon Looney grabbed 11 rebounds as the Warriors held a 54-38 advantage on the boards.
The defending champions got a nice lift before the game seeing Andrew Wiggins back with the team after he had been away since mid-February dealing with a family matter, though he won't be ready to play immediately as he works to get his conditioning back. Wiggins received a warm ovation when announced during the first quarter and he grinned ear to ear.
“To have him back and see his emotions and see him smiling, that's a bright spot for the team,” Moody said.
HOME SWEET HOME
The Warriors won their final three at home and finished the regular season 33-8 at Chase Center and with their 471st consecutive sellout.
WIGGINS RETURNS
Wiggins has rejoined the team after being away for six weeks dealing with a family matter and is working his way back to playing again. That won’t be in the next few days, Kerr said.
“When you’re in a certain situation and your family needs you, it requires your attention and your love, that’s my first priority,” Wiggins said. “My career, everything, family’s always first for me. It will always be that way.”
Wiggins missed his 23rd straight game and hasn’t played since Feb. 13 versus Washington.
TIP-INS
Thunder: Oklahoma City shot 15 for 26 in the opening quarter and 59.6% in the first half. ... The Thunder lost the season series 3-0 last year and 3-1 this season.
Warriors: Golden State has won five straight against the Thunder at home and hasn't lost on its home floor in the series since a 100-97 defeat on Nov. 25, 2019, in Chase Center's initial season.
UP NEXT
Thunder: At Utah on Thursday night looking to snap a four-game skid on the Jazz's home floor.
Warriors: At Sacramento on Friday night looking to win the season series against the playoff-bound Kings and former top assistant Mike Brown.
---
AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports