CURRY SCORES 30 AFTER CAREER NIGHT, WARRIORS BEAT KINGS
Tuesday, January 5th, 2021 1:25 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Stephen Curry followed up his career-high 62 points a night earlier with another 30 points, nine rebounds and eight assists to lead the suddenly clicking Golden State Warriors past the Sacramento Kings 137-106 on Monday.
Curry had 23 points at halftime on 7-for-11 shooting, including 4 of 7 on 3-pointers - nine fewer than his total at the break the night before but impressive nonetheless on a winning back-to-back. He finished with five 3s.
''It's a statement to us that we're getting better. That's all you can ask for,'' Curry said.
With 92 points over the past two nights, Curry posted his third-highest point total in a two-game span, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. He scored 97 combined on Feb. 25 and 27, 2016, and 93 on Feb. 24-25, '16.
After another stellar outing, Curry's sister, Sydel, chimed in - apparently at critics of No. 30, who peeled a wrap off his right quad muscle before the second half began and used a wrap on his lower back during breaks that coach Steve Kerr said is ''just maintenance.''
''Now please shut up! Respectfully, proud lil sis,'' she posted on Twitter.
Kelly Oubre Jr. took some pressure off Curry on the perimeter by knocking down four 3-pointers on the way to 18 points. Draymond Green and Andrew Wiggins dished out five assists apiece as the Warriors totaled an NBA season-high 41.
Golden State jumped to a 19-7 lead and the Kings called a timeout after Curry's first 3 of the night at the 5:24 mark in the opening quarter.
With Green back and healthy playing his third game this season, the Warriors again showed more effort and energy on the defensive end as they did Sunday to split a two-game home set against Portland.
''That's got to be the identity of this group,'' Green said. ''As we continue to figure each other out offensively, figure out where shots are coming from, the one thing we can be consistent on is our energy and effort on the defensive end.''
Sacramento's Harrison Barnes had 18 points and nine rebounds against his former team, and De'Aaron Fox added 18 points and seven assists.
The Kings, coached by former Warriors top assistant and Kerr close friend Luke Walton, dropped their third straight. They were coming off consecutive losses at Houston.
''Well that was a frustrating one, clearly,'' Walton said. ''We looked like the team that played on a back-to-back instead of them.''
STOPPING STEPH
Walton texted Kerr late Sunday about Curry's career performance - and then got to work trying to figure out a way to slow down the two-time MVP who shoots from anywhere his heart desires.
''Obviously, Luke is beloved around here; he's got a lot of friends. He said something about how much fun it was to watch Steph and then he had that moment of ... `Now I've got to guard him tomorrow night, I don't know what we're going to do.'''
The 32-year-old Curry received Western Conference Player of the Week honors for the 15th time in his 12-year career.
''Part of Steph's magic is when he gets going he lights up the gym and he lights up the basketball world. Everybody's watching and talking about him,'' Kerr said. ''Our guys were thrilled on the sidelines. It was so much fun to be part of and to witness it and when that happens there's just a natural glow in the building.''
NO LETDOWN
Kerr wasn't sure what to expect from his young group after the high of Curry's special night and a quick turnaround.
''We've got to back it up,'' he said. ''If we're going to be a good team, these are the games we have to win to build some momentum and continue to build our identity and figure out who we are, what kind of team we are.''
TIP-INS
Kings: F Jabari Parker missed the game for personal reasons. ... The Kings fell behind 30-14 while making only four of 14 shots to begin the game. ... Sacramento had won the last three in the series, and two in a row on the Warriors' home floor. ... Buddy Hield is at 73 straight games with at least one 3-pointer dating to Nov. 3, 2019, the NBA's longest active such streak.
Warriors: Golden State activated rookie Nico Mannion for his first career game, but fellow two-way player Juan Toscano-Anderson wasn't available. Mannion entered midway through the fourth. ''Part of it is to reward Nico. He's been working like crazy here the last couple weeks,'' Kerr said. ''He needs to put on that uniform and get into an NBA game.'' ... The Warriors' 37 first-quarter points were their most, passing 36 from the night before. ... F Alen Smailagic had surgery for a minor torn meniscus in his right knee. The procedure was done by team physician Dr. Chris Lehman. Smailagic, who hasn't played this season, is set to be re-evaluated in about four weeks.
UP NEXT
Kings: Host the Chicago Bulls on Wednesday to begin a season-long stretch with seven straight home games.
Warriors: Host the Clippers on Wednesday night in the first of two straight home games over three days vs. Los Angeles.
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports