SPURS OUTLAST WIZARDS IN OT, END WASHINGTON'S STREAK AT 8
Monday, April 26th, 2021 10:58 PM
By BOBBY BANCROFT - Associated Press
Game Recap
WASHINGTON (AP) DeMar DeRozan had 37 points and 10 assists, and the San Antonio Spurs outlasted the Wizards 146-143 in overtime on Monday night, ending Washington's season-best eight-game winning streak.
DeRozan scored nine of his points in the fourth quarter and OT. Neither team led by more than three points after DeRozan's jumper pulled the Spurs within 118-115 with 5:13 left in the fourth.
Bradley Beal, who was named Eastern Conference Player of the Week earlier in the day, had 45 points for the Wizards, but his 3-point attempt to force a second overtime fell short - as did Washington's chance to match a franchise best winning streak.
Dejounte Murray had 25 points and a career-high 17 rebounds. Keldon Johnson had 21 points and Rudy Gay scored 17 for the Spurs, who have won three straight and five of six.
''It just shows you how talented the league is,'' Murray said about the nonstop scoring at times. ''I wouldn't say on our end or their end that anything (on offense) was easy.''
His coach didn't quite see it that way.
''You wouldn't exactly say it was a defensive clinic by either team,'' Gregg Popovich said after San Antonio finished with a season high in points and improved to 2-3 in overtime. ''We couldn't stop them and they couldn't stop us.''
Both teams shot 53% from the field.
''There are games played throughout the year where nobody deserves to lose and this was one of them,'' Wizards coach Scott Brooks said. ''That was elite offense.''
Russell Westbrook had his league leading 29th triple-double of the season - and 15th in his last 18 games - with 22 points, 13 rebounds and 14 assists. He has 175 career triple-doubles, six behind Oscar Robertson's record.
''I take pride every single night and leaving it all on the floor,'' Westbrook said. ''I honestly believe there is no player like myself. If people want to take it for granted, sorry for them. I don't take nights off.''
There were 29 lead changes and 17 ties in regulation. DeRozan missed a fadeaway over Westbrook to end regulation that rimmed out. DeRozan ran back down the court and Westbrook chased after him before the two smiled and had a laugh.
''That's a good friend,'' DeRozan said. ''That's just us going back and forth. We were going shot for shot. They've been on a roll. I'm glad we pulled it out.''
Alex Len had 17 points and 10 rebounds for Washington. Anthony Gill had a career-high 13 points off the bench. Rui Hachimura returned after missing four games with a sore knee to score 13.
TIP-INS
Spurs: Popovich picked up a technical with 5:15 left in the third after DeRozan fouled Davis Bertans on a 3-point attempt. ... Gay returned after missing Saturday's 110-108 win at New Orleans with a back issue. ... Shot 65% and led 38-34 after the first quarter. ... Improved to 18-10 on the road.
Wizards: Robin Lopez was out with a sprained left ankle. Lopez warmed up before the game, but Brooks said there wasn't a return timetable for his reserve big man, who averages 8.8 points and 3.9 rebounds. ... Westbrook, who picked up a technical with 9:07 left in the game, extended his double-double streak to 25 games, the longest since Dwight Howard had 33 straight for Orlando in 2010-11.
INJURED AGAIN
Derrick White landed on teammate Jakob Poeltl's foot while trying to grab a rebound in the third quarter. ''All I know is that it didn't look good,'' Popovich said after the game.
White has missed 24 games this season due to other ailments.
OLD SCHOOL
Beal and DeRozan combined for 30 field goals and 82 points but neither made a 3-pointer. The teams combined to make just 12 of 37 long-range shots.
UP NEXT
Spurs: At Miami on Wednesday night to wrap up their season series with the Heat, who won the first meeting.
Wizards: Host the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday night. Washington will attempt to sweep the defending champs after coming away with a thrilling 127-124 OT victory in LA on Feb. 22.
---
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports