CURRY, POOLE, THOMPSON SHOOT WARRIORS PAST SPURS 130-115
Saturday, April 1st, 2023 2:08 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Jordan Poole cherishes all of the moments around superstars Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson, from the practice floor behind the scenes to under the bright lights and noise of game night.
Poole joined the Splash Brothers with 200 3-pointers this season, making Golden State just the second team in NBA history to ever do it.
“It's really special to be a part of, second team in history to do it,” Poole said. “Up there with really good company.”
Curry, Thompson and Poole combined for 20 3-pointers with Curry scoring 33 points, Thompson 31 and Poole 27 to send the Warriors past the San Antonio Spurs 130-115 on Friday night.
Poole's first of six 3s gave Golden State three players with 200 or more 3-pointers this season. The Warriors joined Houston in 2016-17 - by James Harden, Eric Gordon and Ryan Anderson - as the only teams to do so. Just one other 3 was made by the rest of Golden State's players all night.
“It’s not easy to make 200 3s in a season, so credit to Jordan, he works his tail off every day, same with Steph, just really cool that we have 200 (3-point) guys and I get to play with two of them,” Thompson said, predicting All-Star games for Poole soon. “He’s our future. We got so lucky to get a guy like him at the 28th pick, that doesn’t happen often.”
Curry shot 11 for 21 and 7 of 11 from deep, and Thompson also hit seven 3s as the defending champions stayed put in sixth place in the Western Conference standings. They have an identical 41-37 record to the fifth-place Clippers, who hold the tiebreaker based on divisional record.
This might have marked the final time Gregg Popovich faced off against dear friend, pupil and former assistant and player Steve Kerr. They shared a hug and some words after the final buzzer.
Golden State reserve Anthony Lamb delivered a timely left-handed block with 5:04 remaining on Malaki Branham’s driving layup attempt.
Keldon Johnson scored 22 points off the bench, Branham had 19 points and seven rebounds and Sandro Mamukelashvili added 13 points and 11 rebounds in San Antonio’s sixth straight loss overall and sixth in a row on the road.
Thompson pushed his NBA-leading 3-point shot total to 285 while helping the Warriors to a 43-point fourth quarter after trailing 88-87 heading into the final 12 minutes. They beat the Spurs for the fourth straight time and swept all three games of the season series.
Jonathan Kuminga drove through paint for a two-handed slam early in the fourth, then Curry hit from deep the next time down for a 95-90 lead before Poole's 3 from 29 feet.
Draymond Green dished out 11 of the Warriors' 37 assists.
3-POINT FEST
Curry appreciated the Warriors' 3-point shooting achievement.
“Nice to accomplish feats that are rare in NBA history,” Curry said. “It's special and obviously JP coming into his own as a great shooter and balancing just scoring overall and also stretching the defense out, it's awesome.”
Poole missed his initial three from deep.
PRAISING POP
Kerr has imagined any game might be his last with pal Popovich on the opposite bench. He cherishes each meeting.
“I mean the last couple of years, I’ve wondered. I think we faced the Spurs in San Antonio last year when it was their last home game and I thought that might have been it and I think it’s just going to be strange whenever he does decide to hang it up,” Kerr said before the game. "It’ll be strange not seeing him on the sidelines. We’ve all sort of taken it for granted for a long time now but wat he’s meant to the league and to so many of us, it will definitely be a sad day when he retires.”
TIP-INS
Spurs: Popovich heard former C LaMarcus Aldridge announced his retirement and plans a wine-themed gift. ... The Spurs have dropped six of the last eight matchups with the Warriors.
Warriors: Kerr had no update on Andrew Wiggins and when the star forward might return. He missed his 21st straight game dealing with a family matter. ... Kevon Looney grabbed nine rebounds and two more offensive boards to give him 255 on that end. ... Gary Payton II had seven points and eight rebounds.
UP NEXT
Spurs: At playoff-bound Sacramento on Sunday having dropped five straight in the series. It will be Sacramento's first home game since ending an NBA-record 16-year playoff drought - the franchise's first berth since 2006.
Warriors: At Denver on Sunday having lost the last two to the Nuggets and five of six.
---
AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP-Sports