JOHNSON, SOCHAN LEAD SPURS PAST WARRIORS TEAM WITHOUT CURRY, 126-113
Sunday, March 10th, 2024 12:23 AM
By JANIE McCAULEY - AP Sports Writer
Game Recap
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Jonathan Kuminga attacked the rim and tried to will the Golden State Warriors back into the game. They just couldn't get enough timely stops.
Keldon Johnson and the San Antonio Spurs delivered in some big moments.
Johnson had 22 points and 11 rebounds, and San Antonio beat a Golden State team playing without Stephen Curry 126-113 on Saturday night.
Jeremy Sochan and Malaki Branham each scored 20 points for San Antonio, which had dropped seven of nine. Julian Champagnie had 17 points and seven rebounds.
“It was very important to bring the energy from the start, especially against a team and a crowd and environment like Golden State and San Francisco,” Sochan said.
Klay Thompson came off the bench to score 27 points for Golden State, which dropped consecutive games for the first time since Jan. 25 and 27 to the Kings and Lakers - also at home in Chase Center.
Both Curry and Spurs rookie Victor Wembanyama sat out with right ankle injuries.
Kuminga scored the first nine Warriors points of the fourth and 11 of 13 - all attacking the basket - to finish with 26 for his fifth 20-point game in the last seven. But he didn't have enough help as the Warriors dearly missed Curry's 26.9 points per game.
Each time Golden State made a push late in the third, the Spurs seemed to have an answer on the offensive end - and they kept that going over the final 12 minutes. Trayce Jackson-Davis had a driving layup with 37 seconds left in the quarter only for Champagnie to knock down a baseline 3-pointer moments later.
“The second half we tried to do our best to get back in the game,” Kuminga said. “It was a little bit late.”
Champagnie made five 3s and Johnson hit four as the Spurs shot 17 for 33 from deep. They came into the game ranked 29th in the NBA in 3-point shooting at 34.8%.
San Antonio led by 18 midway through the second quarter while shooting 55.9% then went into halftime up 62-43.
“It was tough. We just never had any traction in the game,” Warriors coach Steve Kerr said. “I didn’t feel like we had confidence or energy. I thought their pace and their movement bothered us and we had some breakdowns. It just felt like we were never really in the game.”
Chris Paul started in place of Curry and had 10 points and nine assists. It was his 12th start and first since Jan. 5 against Detroit as the Warriors used their 20th different starting lineup.
An MRI exam on Curry’s ankle revealed no structural damage. He is scheduled to be re-evaluated Tuesday.
“I would say it’s a good result. The MRI was clear, he’s feeling better today,” Kerr said. “So all in all I would call it positive.”
The two-time MVP, who turns 36 on Thursday, was hurt late in the fourth quarter of Thursday’s 125-122 loss to the Chicago Bulls.
The Warriors had their five-game winning streak against San Antonio snapped and they had also won three in a row in the series at home.
Retired tennis star Roger Federer sat courtside with Warriors owner Joe Lacob a day after announcing the Laver Cup tennis event coming to Chase Center in September 2025.
It marked the first Golden State game without Curry or Thompson starting since Jan. 20, 2023, against the Clippers, according to Elias.
UP NEXT
The teams play again Monday in San Antonio.
---
AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA