ANOTHER TRIPLE-DOUBLE FOR DOMANTAS SABONIS SENDS KINGS PAST WIZARDS 143-131
Tuesday, December 19th, 2023 8:04 AM
By MICHAEL WAGAMAN - Associated Press
Game Recap
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) Domantas Sabonis had his 35th career triple-double with 28 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists as the Sacramento Kings beat the Washington Wizards 143-131 on Monday night.
De’Aaron Fox scored 12 of his 30 points during Sacramento’s 46-point third quarter, and Keegan Murray added 25 on a night when six Kings scored in double figures. Harrison Barnes had 19, Kevin Huerter 14 and Malik Monk finished with 10 as Sacramento (16-9) won for the fourth time in five games.
That type of offense bodes well for a Kings team trying to make back-to-back playoff appearances after an NBA-record 16-season drought.
“When you have multiple guys playing at a high level in the same game, it’s extremely hard to beat us,” Fox said. “We want to be able to consistently be able to play at this level. That’s the type of work we put in. We’re just continuing to play the right way. And we continue to go out and become a better defensive team.”
Sabonis fell three assists or fewer shy of a triple-double in his previous three games. He had extra motivation against the Wizards - the game came one day before his father’s birthday. Arvydas Sabonis is a former NBA player and Hall of Famer who spent seven seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers.
“Just trying to play the right way, being aggressive and just reading the game,” Domantas Sabonis said. “Tonight I really wanted to get it. My present is going to be delayed, so hopefully the win and a triple-double counts.”
The Wizards put up a tough challenge before fading at the end. Washington shot better than 50% overall (44 of 85), made 18 3-pointers and allowed only eight points off 12 turnovers.
Jordan Poole matched his career high with eight 3-pointers and scored 28 points for the Wizards. Kyle Kuzma added 27, but Washington (4-22) has lost 17 of its last 19 games.
Sabonis’ night included his eighth straight double-double and 21st in 25 games. The triple-double was his 17th in a Kings uniform, the most in the franchise’s Sacramento era.
The big man scored 20 points in the first half, including nine of Sacramento’s final 18 before the break.
“Domas was a monster,” Kings coach Mike Brown said. “Him playing the right way with the people we have on this team, he can fall into a triple-double.”
The Wizards tied it 40-all in the second quarter but couldn’t keep up after that and trailed for the final 30 minutes.
Fox, held out of Saturday’s win against Utah with a sore right shoulder, needs eight assists to break Mike Bibby’s Sacramento-ERA team record of 2,580.
Poole, who has scored in double figures in nine of his last 10 games, kept the Wizards close but Washington was never able to get over the hump.
“They just look more together,” Poole said of the Kings. “They’ve been building this for seven, eight years. They have all the right pieces.”
The Kings led by 10 at halftime and then pulled away during their 46-point third quarter. Barnes provided 13 points and Fox had 12, including a pair of three-point plays.
UP NEXT
Wizards: Continue their West Coast swing at Portland on Thursday.
Kings: Host the Celtics on Wednesday. Sacramento has lost four straight to Boston.
---
AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba